

//SUBTITLE
Certainly! Here's the text with the numbers removed:

```
‫So the third part
of an effect is the cleanup function.

And so let's now come back to the timeline
that we have looked at before,
and the holes that we have left in it.

So remember that after the last effect run,
the title of the page in the browser tab was set
to Interstellar Wars, right?

However, once we unmounted the movie details component,
we would probably like the title to return
to the original text, which was simply usePopcorn,
so just the name of the application.

But how could we do that?
How can we ensure that the page title stays synchronized
with the application,
even after the component has disappeared?

Well, basically what we need is a way to execute some code
as the component unmounts.

And we can do exactly that
by returning a so-called cleanup function from the effect.

And in this case, that's simply a function
that sets the title back to usePopcorn.

All right, but you see that we still have another hole here
in the timeline, and that's because the cleanup function
that we return from the effect is actually also executed
on re-renders,
so right before the next effect is executed again.

So let's recap this important new information
that we just learned.

So the cleanup function is a function
that we can return from an effect,
and I say it can because the cleanup function is optional,
so we don't have to return one from the effect.

Now the cleanup function will run on two occasions.
First, it runs before the effect is executed again,
in order to clean up the results
of the previous side effect.
It also runs right
after the component instance has unmounted,
in order to give us the opportunity to reset the side effect
that we created, if that's necessary.

So remember that we have the dependency array,
in order to run code whenever the component mounts
or re-renders.
And now with the cleanup function, we also have a way
to run some code whenever the component unmounts.

And so with this,
we have the entire component life cycle covered.

Now you might be wondering,
when do we actually need a cleanup function?

Well, basically we need a cleanup function
whenever the side effect keeps happening
after the component has been re-rendered or unmounted.

For example, you might be doing an HTTP request
in your effect.
Now if the component is re-rendered
while the first request is still running,
a new second request would be fired off, right?
And so this might then create a bug called a race condition.
And therefore it's a good idea to cancel the request
in a cleanup function whenever the component re-renders
or unmounts.

And of course, there are many other examples.
So when you subscribe to some API service,
you should cancel the subscription.
When you start a timer,
you should stop the timer in the cleanup function.
Or if you add an event listener,
you should clean up by removing it.

Okay, and now to finish,
let me give you one more important rule about effects,
which is that each effect should only do one thing.

So if you need to create multiple effects
in your components, which is completely normal,
just use multiple useEffect hooks.
This not only makes each effect much easier to understand,
but it also makes effects easier
to clean up using a cleanup function.
And with that being said, let's return to our application.
```